# Application Structure
## AndroidManifest.xml
- The manifest file is the root element of the AndroidManifest.xml file. It contains the essential information about the application and defines each of its components.
- The manifest file is required for all applications, and must be present in the application's APK file.
- The manifest file is written in XML and must be valid XML.
- The manifest file must be located in the root of the APK file.
- The manifest file must be named AndroidManifest.xml.
- The manifest file must be encoded in UTF-8.
- The manifest file must be well-formed XML.
- The manifest file must contain a <manifest> element as its root element.
- The manifest file must contain a <manifest> element with a package attribute that is a unique package name for the application and all of its libraries, and that is a valid Java package name, and that is a valid Java package name, and that is a valid Java package name.

- Example of a manifest file:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    package="com.example.android.apis"
    android:versionCode="1"
    android:versionName="1.0" >

    <uses-sdk
        android:minSdkVersion="8"
        android:targetSdkVersion="17" />

    <application
        android:allowBackup="true"
        android:icon="@drawable/ic_launcher"
        android:label="@string/app_name"
        android:theme="@style/AppTheme" >
        <activity
            android:name=".ApiDemos"
            android:label="@string/app_name" >
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />

                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>
        </activity>
    </application>

</manifest>
```
- `<manifest>` element with a package attribute that is a unique package name for the application and all of its libraries, and that is a valid Java package name.
- `<uses-sdk>` element that specifies the minimum API level required for the application to run, and the target API level.
- `<application>` element that specifies the application's icon, label, and theme.
- `<activity>` element that specifies the activity's name and label.
- `<intent-filter>` element that specifies the activity's intent filter.
- `<action>` element that specifies the activity's action.
- `<category>` element that specifies the activity's category.

## Uses-permission
- The `<uses-permission>` element is used to declare the use of a single permission that the application requires.
- The `<uses-permission>` element must be a direct child of the `<manifest>` element.
- The `<uses-permission>` element must include the android:name attribute, which specifies the name of the permission that the application requires.
- The `<uses-permission>` element may include the android:maxSdkVersion attribute, which specifies the maximum API level (inclusive) at which the permission is required.
- The `<uses-permission>` element may include the android:required attribute, which specifies whether the permission is required for the application to run. The default value is true.
- The `<uses-permission>` element may include the android:protectionLevel attribute, which specifies the protection level of the permission. The default value is normal.
