# Packages in Java
## What is a package?
A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. Conceptually you can think of packages as being similar to different folders on your computer. For example, the package named java.awt.geom contains the classes (and interfaces) that define 2D geometric objects, such as the Rectangle2D class. The package named java.awt.event contains the classes (and interfaces) that define the event model for AWT components. The package named java.io contains the classes (and interfaces) that define streams for I/O operations.

## Why use packages?
Packages are used for:
* **Namespacing**: Packages provide a unique namespace for the classes and interfaces in your program. This means that you can use the same name for a class in two different packages without having to worry about name conflicts.
* **Access Control**: Packages provide access control. You can make a class or interface available to other classes in the same package, but not to classes in other packages. This is useful for hiding implementation details from other classes.
* **Versioning**: Packages provide a way to version your program. You can add new classes and interfaces to a package without worrying about breaking existing code that uses the package. You can also remove classes and interfaces from a package without breaking existing code that uses the package. This is useful for providing backward compatibility for your program.

## How to create a package in java?
To create a package in java, you need to create a folder with the package name. For example, if you want to create a package named com.example, you need to create a folder named com.example in the src folder of your project. You can create a package in the following ways:
* **Using the IDE**: You can create a package using the IDE. For example, in Eclipse, you can right-click on the src folder and select New > Package. Then, you can enter the package name and click Finish.
* **Using the command line**: You can create a package using the command line. For example, if you are using the command line on Windows, you can use the following command to create a package named com.example:
```
mkdir src\com\example
```
* **Using the file system**: You can create a package using the file system. For example, if you are using Windows, you can create a folder named com.example in the src folder of your project.

# Import in Java
## What is import?
The import statement is used to import classes and interfaces from packages. For example, if you want to use the Scanner class, you need to import the java.util.Scanner class. You can import a class or interface in the following ways:
* **Using the fully qualified name**: You can use the fully qualified name of the class or interface. For example, if you want to use the Scanner class, you can use the following code:
```
java.util.Scanner scanner = new java.util.Scanner(System.in);
```
* **Using the import statement**: You can use the import statement to import the class or interface. For example, if you want to use the Scanner class, you can use the following code:
```
import java.util.Scanner;
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
```
* **Using the wildcard import statement**: You can use the wildcard import statement to import all the classes and interfaces in a package. For example, if you want to use the Scanner class, you can use the following code:
```
import java.util.*;
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
```
* **Using the static import statement**: You can use the static import statement to import static members of a class. For example, if you want to use the PI constant in the Math class, you can use the following code:
```
import static java.lang.Math.PI;
double area = PI * radius * radius;
```
* **Using the static wildcard import statement**: You can use the static wildcard import statement to import all the static members of a class. For example, if you want to use the PI constant in the Math class, you can use the following code:
```
import static java.lang.Math.*;
double area = PI * radius * radius;
```

## How to import a package in java?
You can import a package in the following ways:
* **Using the IDE**: You can import a package using the IDE. For example, in Eclipse, you can right-click on the project and select Build Path > Configure Build Path. Then, you can click the Libraries tab and click Add Library. Then, you can select the JRE System Library and click Next. Then, you can select the workspace default JRE and click Finish. Then, you can click the Libraries tab and click Add External JARs. Then, you can select the JAR file and click Open. Then, you can click OK.
* **Using the command line**: You can import a package using the command line. For example, if you are using the command line on Windows, you can use the following command to import a package named com.example:
```
javac -cp .;lib\example.jar src\com\example\*.java
```
* **Using the file system**: You can import a package using the file system. For example, if you are using Windows, you can copy the JAR file to the lib folder of your project.

# Most used packages in Java
The following table lists the most used packages in Java:
Package | Description
---|---
java.lang | Contains the fundamental classes and interfaces of the Java programming language.
java.util | Contains the collections framework, legacy collection classes, event model, date and time facilities, internationalization, and miscellaneous utility classes.
java.io | Contains the classes for performing input and output (I/O) operations.
java.net | Contains the classes for implementing networking applications.
java.awt | Contains the classes for creating graphical user interfaces (GUIs).
java.applet | Contains the classes for creating applets.
java.sql | Contains the classes for accessing a relational database.
java.rmi | Contains the classes for creating remote method invocation (RMI) applications.
java.text | Contains the classes for formatting and parsing text.
java.math | Contains the classes for performing basic numeric operations.
java.security | Contains the classes for implementing security.
java.beans | Contains the classes for JavaBeans.

# Most used classes in Java
The following table lists the most used classes in Java:
Class | Description
---|---
Object | The root of the class hierarchy. Every class has Object as a superclass. All objects, including arrays, implement the methods of this class.
String | A string represents a sequence of characters. Strings are constant; their values cannot be changed after they are created. String buffers support mutable strings. Because String objects are immutable they can be shared.
StringBuffer | A string buffer is like a String, but can be modified. At any point in time it contains some particular sequence of characters, but the length and content of the sequence can be changed through certain method calls.
StringBuilder | A string builder is like a String, but can be modified. At any point in time it contains some particular sequence of characters, but the length and content of the sequence can be changed through certain method calls.
System | The System class contains several useful class fields and methods. It cannot be instantiated.
Math | The Math class contains methods for performing basic numeric operations such as the elementary exponential, logarithm, square root, and trigonometric functions.
Integer | The Integer class wraps a value of the primitive type int in an object. An object of type Integer contains a single field whose type is int.
Double | The Double class wraps a value of the primitive type double in an object. An object of type Double contains a single field whose type is double.

