# Input in java

## How to read input in java?

You can read input in the following ways:

* **Using the Scanner class**: You can use the Scanner class to read input. For example, if you want to read an integer, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
int number = scanner.nextInt();
```

* **Using the BufferedReader class**: You can use the BufferedReader class to read input. For example, if you want to read an integer, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
int number = Integer.parseInt(reader.readLine());
```

## Scanner class

The Scanner class is used to read input from the keyboard. You can use the Scanner class in the following ways:

* **Reading a single word**: You can use the `next()` method to read a single word. For example, if you want to read a single word, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
String word = scanner.next();
```

* **Reading a single line**: You can use the `nextLine()` method to read a single line. For example, if you want to read a single line, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
String line = scanner.nextLine();
```

* **Reading an integer**: You can use the `nextInt()` method to read an integer. For example, if you want to read an integer, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
int number = scanner.nextInt();
```

* **Reading a double**: You can use the `nextDouble()` method to read a double. For example, if you want to read a double, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
double number = scanner.nextDouble();
```

* **Reading a boolean**: You can use the `nextBoolean()` method to read a boolean. For example, if you want to read a boolean, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
boolean bool = scanner.nextBoolean();
```

* **Reading a character**: You can use the `next().charAt(0)` method to read a character. For example, if you want to read a character, you can use the following code:

```java
Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
char character = scanner.next().charAt(0);
```

## BufferedReader class

The BufferedReader class is used to read input from the keyboard. You can use the BufferedReader class in the following ways:

* **Reading a single word**: You can use the `readLine()` method to read a single word. For example, if you want to read a single word, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
String word = reader.readLine();
```

* **Reading a single line**: You can use the `readLine()` method to read a single line. For example, if you want to read a single line, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
String line = reader.readLine();
```

* **Reading an integer**: You can use the `Integer.parseInt(reader.readLine())` method to read an integer. For example, if you want to read an integer, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
int number = Integer.parseInt(reader.readLine());
```

* **Reading a double**: You can use the `Double.parseDouble(reader.readLine())` method to read a double. For example, if you want to read a double, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
double number = Double.parseDouble(reader.readLine());
```

* **Reading a boolean**: You can use the `Boolean.parseBoolean(reader.readLine())` method to read a boolean. For example, if you want to read a boolean, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
boolean bool = Boolean.parseBoolean(reader.readLine());
```

* **Reading a character**: You can use the `reader.readLine().charAt(0)` method to read a character. For example, if you want to read a character, you can use the following code:

```java
BufferedReader reader = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
char character = reader.readLine().charAt(0);
```

# Output in java

## How to print output in java?

You can print output in the following ways:

* **Using the System.out.println() method**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print output. For example, if you want to print a string, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.println("Hello World!");
```

* **Using the System.out.print() method**: You can use the `System.out.print()` method to print output. For example, if you want to print a string, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.print("Hello World!");
```

* **Using the System.out.printf() method**: You can use the `System.out.printf()` method to print output. For example, if you want to print a string, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.printf("Hello World!");
```

## System.out.println() method

The `System.out.println()` method is used to print output. You can use the `System.out.println()` method in the following ways:

* **Printing a string**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a string. For example, if you want to print a string, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.println("Hello World!");
```

* **Printing a number**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a number. For example, if you want to print a number, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.println(123);
```

* **Printing a boolean**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a boolean. For example, if you want to print a boolean, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.println(true);
```

* **Printing a character**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a character. For example, if you want to print a character, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.println('a');
```

* **Printing a variable**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a variable. For example, if you want to print a variable, you can use the following code:

```java
int number = 123;
System.out.println(number);
```

* **Printing a string and a number**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a string and a number. For example, if you want to print a string and a number, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.println("Hello World! " + 123);
```

* **Printing a string and a variable**: You can use the `System.out.println()` method to print a string and a variable. For example, if you want to print a string and a variable, you can use the following code:

```java
int number = 123;
System.out.println("Hello World! " + number);
```

* **Printing a string and a number using printf() method**: You can use the `System.out.printf()` method to print a string and a number. For example, if you want to print a string and a number, you can use the following code:

```java
System.out.printf("Hello World! %d", 123);
```

* **Printing a string and a variable using printf() method**: You can use the `System.out.printf()` method to print a string and a variable. For example, if you want to print a string and a variable, you can use the following code:

```java
int number = 123;
System.out.printf("Hello World! %d", number);
```

