# Datatypes in Java

## Types of Datatypes in Java

1. Primitive Datatypes
2. Non-Primitive Datatypes

## Primitive Datatypes

Primitive datatypes the most basic datatypes in Java. They are predefined in Java and are not objects. They are used to store simple values like numbers, characters, etc. There are 8 primitive datatypes in Java.

| Datatype | Size    | Description                                                                       | Example                 |
| -------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| byte     | 1 byte  | Stores whole numbers from -128 to 127                                             | `byte a = 100;`         |
| short    | 2 bytes | Stores whole numbers from -32,768 to 32,767                                       | `short b = 10000;`      |
| int      | 4 bytes | Stores whole numbers from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647                         | `int c = 100000;`       |
| long     | 8 bytes | Stores whole numbers from -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 | `long d = 1000000000L;` |
| float    | 4 bytes | Stores fractional numbers. Sufficient for storing 6 to 7 decimal digits           | `float e = 5.75f;`      |
| double   | 8 bytes | Stores fractional numbers. Sufficient for storing 15 decimal digits               | `double f = 19.99d;`    |
| boolean  | 1 bit   | Stores true or false values                                                       | `boolean g = true;`     |
| char     | 2 bytes | Stores a single character/letter or ASCII values                                  | `char h = 'A';`         |

## Non-Primitive Datatypes

Non-primitive datatypes are used to store complex objects like arrays, classes, etc. They are not predefined in Java. They are created by the programmer and are called reference variables. They are used to access methods of the class. There are two types of non-primitive datatypes in Java.

1. Class
2. Interface
3. Array
4. String
5. Enum

#### Class

A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type. For example, a circle is an object. Circle has two properties: radius and color. So, in Java, a class can be defined as:

```java
class Circle {
    double radius;
    String color;
}
```

#### Interface

An interface is a blueprint of a class. It has static constants and abstract methods. The interface in Java is a mechanism to achieve abstraction. There can be only abstract methods in the Java interface, not method body. It is used to achieve abstraction and multiple inheritance in Java.

```java
interface Drawable {
    void draw();
}
```

#### Java Arrays

An array is a group of similar type of elements which are referred by a common name. Array in Java is an object which contains elements of a similar data type. Java array is index-based, the first element of the array is stored at the 0th index, the second element is stored at the 1st index and so on. Java array can be also be called as Java container as it can contain a fixed number of values of a single type.

```java
int[] arr = new int[5];
```

#### Java String

A string is a sequence of characters. A string is an object of the String class. Java string is immutable which means it cannot be changed. Whenever we change any string, a new instance is created. For example:

```java
String s1 = "Hello";
s1 = s1 + "World";
```

In the above example, a new string "HelloWorld" is created and the reference of the new string is assigned to s1. The "Hello" string still exists and can be used further.

#### Java Enum

An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables). To create an enum, use the enum keyword (instead of class or interface), and separate the constants with a comma. Note that they should be in uppercase letters:

```java
enum Level {
    LOW,
    MEDIUM,
    HIGH
}
```
