# Control Statements in Java

#### Conditional Statements in Java
1. if-else
2. Nested if
3. if-else-if ladder
4. switch-case

#### Iteration Statements in Java
1. for
2. while
3. do-while

#### Jump Statements in Java
1. break
2. continue
3. return

---------------------------------------
## Conditional Statements in Java
Conditional statements are used to perform different actions based on different conditions.

### 1. if-else
- The if statement executes a block of code if a specified condition is true.
- The else statement executes a block of code if the same condition is false.
- The if-else statement is used to execute one block of code if a condition is true and another block of code if that condition is false.
- The if-else statement is a compound statement.


```java
if (condition) {
    // statements
} else {
    // statements
}
```

### 2. Nested if
- The if statement can be nested inside another if statement.
- The inner if statement is executed only if the outer if statement is true.
- The inner if statement can be an if-else statement as well.

```java
if (condition1) {
    // statements
    if (condition2) {
        // statements
    } else {
        // statements
    }
} else {
    // statements
}
```

### 3. if-else-if ladder
- The if-else-if ladder is used to execute one of multiple blocks of code.
- The if-else-if ladder is a compound statement.
- The if-else-if ladder is executed from top to bottom.
- If the condition for if is true, then the statement inside if is executed and the rest of the ladder is bypassed.
- If the condition for if is false, then the condition for else-if is checked.
- If the condition for else-if is true, then the statement inside else-if is executed and the rest of the ladder is bypassed.

```java
if (condition1) {
    // statements
} else if (condition2) {
    // statements
} else if (condition3) {
    // statements
} else {
    // statements
}
```

### 4. switch-case
- The switch statement is used to perform different actions based on different conditions.
- The switch statement is a multi-way branch statement.
- The switch statement is a compound statement.
- The switch statement is executed from top to bottom.
- Once a match is found, the statements associated with that case are executed and the rest of the switch statement is bypassed.
- The break statement is used to terminate the switch statement.
- The default statement is used to specify some code to run if there is no case match.

```java
switch (expression) {
    case value1:
        // statements
        break;
    case value2:
        // statements
        break;
    case value3:
        // statements
        break;
    default:
        // statements
}
```

## Iteration Statements in Java
Iteration statements are used to execute a block of code multiple times.

### 1. for
- The for loop is used to execute a block of code a specified number of times.
- The for loop is a compound statement.
- The for loop is executed from top to bottom.
- The for loop is used when the number of iterations is known.

```java
for (initialization; condition; increment/decrement) {
    // statements
}
```

### 2. while
- The while loop is used to execute a block of code as long as a specified condition is true.
- The while loop is a compound statement.
- The while loop is executed from top to bottom.
- The while loop is used when the number of iterations is unknown.

```java
while (condition) {
    // statements
}
```

### 3. do-while
- The do-while loop is used to execute a block of code as long as a specified condition is true.
- The do-while loop is a compound statement.
- The do-while loop is executed from top to bottom.
- The do-while loop is used when the number of iterations is unknown.
- The do-while loop is executed at least once, even if the condition is false.

```java
do {
    // statements
} while (condition);
```

## Jump Statements in Java
Jump statements are used to transfer the control of the program to another part of the program.

### 1. break
- The break statement is used to terminate the loop or switch statement and transfer the program control to the next statement following the loop or switch.
- The break statement is used to terminate a loop or a switch statement.
- The break statement is used inside the loop or switch only.    
- The break statement is used to terminate the current loop only.
- The break statement is used to terminate the innermost loop only.

```java
for (initialization; condition; increment/decrement) {
    // statements
    break;
}
```

### 2. continue
- The continue statement is used to skip the current iteration of a loop and continue with the next iteration.
- The continue statement is used to skip the current iteration of a loop.
- The continue statement is used inside the loop only.
- The continue statement is used to skip the current iteration of the innermost loop only.

```java
for (initialization; condition; increment/decrement) {
    // statements
    continue;
}
```

### 3. return
- The return statement is used to exit a method.
- The return statement is used to return a value from a method.
- The return statement is used inside the method only.
- The return statement is used to return a value from the innermost method only.

```java
return;
```

## Keywords used in control statements
| Keyword | Description |
| --- | --- |
| break | Terminates the loop or switch statement and transfers the program control to the next statement following the loop or switch. |
| continue | Skips the current iteration of a loop and continues with the next iteration. |
| return | Exits a method. |
| if | Checks a condition. If the condition is true, it executes the statements inside the if block. |
| else | Executes the statements inside the else block if the condition inside the if block is false. |
| else if | Checks a new condition if the condition inside the if block is false. |
| switch | Checks a variable for equality against a list of values. |
| case | Specifies a list of values for the switch variable to be compared to. |
| default | Specifies some code to run if there is no case match. |
| for | Executes a block of code a specified number of times. |
| while | Executes a block of code as long as a specified condition is true. |
| do-while | Executes a block of code as long as a specified condition is true. The difference between a while loop and a do-while loop is that a do-while loop is executed at least once, even if the condition is false. |

