# OOPs Concepts in Java

1. Encapsulation
2. Abstraction
3. Inheritance
4. Polymorphism
5. Class
6. Object

## 1. Encapsulation
- Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit are known as encapsulation. For example, a capsule, it is wrapped with different medicines.
-  A java class is the example of encapsulation. Java bean is the fully encapsulated class because all the data members are private here.
- Encapsulation can be achieved by: Declaring all the variables in the class as private and writing public methods in the class to set and get the values of variables.

## 2. Abstraction
- Hiding the internal details and showing only functionality is known as abstraction.
- In other words, abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details and showing only functionality to the user.
- There are two ways to achieve abstraction in java
    - Abstract class (0 to 100%)
    - Interface (100%)

## 3. Inheritance
- Inheritance is the mechanism in java by which one class is allowed to inherit the features(fields and methods) of another class.
- Benefits of Inheritance
    - It represents real-world relationships well.
    - It provides reusability of a code. We don’t have to write the same code again and again. Also, it allows us to add more features to a class without modifying it.
    - It is transitive in nature, which means that if class B inherits from another class A, then all the subclasses of B would automatically inherit from class A.
- Types of Inheritance
     - Single Inheritance
     - Multilevel Inheritance
     - Hierarchical Inheritance
     - Multiple Inheritance
     - Hybrid Inheritance

## 4. Polymorphism
- Polymorphism means "many forms", and it occurs when we have many classes that are related to each other by inheritance.
- Like we specified in the previous chapter; inheritance lets us inherit attributes and methods from another class. Polymorphism uses those methods to perform different tasks. This allows us to perform a single action in different ways.
- Types of Polymorphism
    - Compile time Polymorphism
    - Runtime Polymorphism

## 5. Class
- A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type.
- Syntax
 ```java
     class class_name {
          // fields
          // methods
     }
 ```
- Example
 ```java
     class Student {
          int rollno;
          String name;
     }
 ```

## 6. Object
- Object is simply a self-contained component which consists of methods and properties to make a particular type of data useful.
- A class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.
- Example
 ```java
     Student s1 = new Student();
 ```
- Here, s1 is the object of Student class.

## Example of OOPs Concepts in Java
 ```java
     class Student {
          int rollno;
          String name;
          void insertRecord(int r, String n) {
               rollno = r;
               name = n;
          }
          void displayInformation() {
               System.out.println(rollno + " " + name);
          }
     }
     class TestStudent {
          public static void main(String args[]) {
               Student s1 = new Student();
               Student s2 = new Student();
               s1.insertRecord(111, "Karan");
               s2.insertRecord(222, "Aryan");
               s1.displayInformation();
               s2.displayInformation();
          }
     }
 ```
- Output
 ```java
     111 Karan
     222 Aryan
 ```
- Here, we have created two objects `s1` and `s2` of Student class. We have inserted the records into the database by the method `insertRecord()`. Then we have displayed the records by the method `displayInformation()`.
-  `s1` and `s2` that share the same properties and methods, but with different values.

## Keywords used in OOP's Concepts in Java
| Keyword | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `class` | A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. |
| `extends` | The extends keyword is used in class inheritance to inherit the properties from one class to another. |
| `super` | The super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. |
| `this` | The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor. |
| `interface` | An interface is a blueprint of a class. It has static constants and abstract methods. |
| `implements` | The implements keyword is used to implement an interface. |
| `abstract` | The abstract keyword is a non-access modifier, used for classes and methods: |

--------------------------------------