# Conditional Statements in C++

## Types of Conditional Statements
1. if
2. if-else
3. if-else-if ladder
4. Nested if-else
5. switch

## if
The if statement is used to execute a block of code if a condition is true. The syntax of if statement is as follows:
```c++
if (condition) {
    // code to be executed if condition is true
}
```
The condition can be any expression that evaluates to true or false. If the condition evaluates to true, the code inside the if block is executed. If the condition evaluates to false, the code inside the if block is skipped.

## if-else
The if-else statement is used to execute a block of code if a condition is true and another block of code if the condition is false. The syntax of if-else statement is as follows:
```c++
if (condition) {
    // code to be executed if condition is true
} else {
    // code to be executed if condition is false
}
```
The condition can be any expression that evaluates to true or false. If the condition evaluates to true, the code inside the if block is executed. If the condition evaluates to false, the code inside the else block is executed.

## if-else-if ladder
The if-else-if ladder is used to execute a block of code among multiple blocks of code. The syntax of if-else-if ladder is as follows:
```c++
if (condition1) {
    // code to be executed if condition1 is true
} else if (condition2) {
    // code to be executed if condition2 is true
} else if (condition3) {
    // code to be executed if condition3 is true
} else {
    // code to be executed if all conditions are false
}
```

## Nested if-else
The nested if-else statement is used to execute a block of code if a condition is true and another block of code if the condition is false. The syntax of nested if-else statement is as follows:
```c++
if (condition1) {
    // code to be executed if condition1 is true
    if (condition2) {
        // code to be executed if condition2 is true
    } else {
        // code to be executed if condition2 is false
    }
} else {
    // code to be executed if condition1 is false
}
```

## switch
The switch statement is used to execute a block of code among multiple blocks of code. The syntax of switch statement is as follows:
```c++
switch (expression) {
    case constant1:
        // code to be executed if expression is equal to constant1
        break;
    case constant2:
        // code to be executed if expression is equal to constant2
        break;
    case constant3:
        // code to be executed if expression is equal to constant3
        break;
    default:
        // code to be executed if expression is not equal to any constant
}
```
The expression can be any expression that evaluates to an integer. The constant can be any integer constant. If the expression is equal to any of the constant, the code inside the corresponding case block is executed. If the expression is not equal to any of the constant, the code inside the default block is executed.

